external.md, before:

---
title: External packages
---

## External packages

Several external packages are maintained in repositories within the
iraf-community organization on github:

* [fitsutil](https://github.com/iraf-community/fitsutil) -
  Utilities for single and multiple FITS files
* [sptable](https://github.com/iraf-community/sptable) -
  IRAF package for tabular spectra
* [mscred](https://github.com/iraf-community/mscred) -
  Mosaic CCD reduction package
* [nfextern](https://github.com/iraf-community/nfextern) -
  General IR reductions/NEWFIRM package 
* [vo](https://github.com/iraf-community/vo) -
  Virtual Observatory package and vocl from the original v2.16.1 release
* [mscdb](https://github.com/iraf-community/mscdb) -
  MSCRED support files
* [xdimsum](https://github.com/iraf-community/xdimsum) -
  IR reductions
* [ucsclris](https://github.com/iraf-community/ucsclris) -
  UCSC LRIS mask making
* [guiapps](https://github.com/iraf-community/guiapps) -
  Prototype GUI application 
* [deitab](https://github.com/iraf-community/deitab) -
  DEIMOS tables package 
* [adccdrom](https://github.com/iraf-community/adccdrom) -
  Astronomical Data Center (ADC) CD-ROM tools
* [ctio](https://github.com/iraf-community/ctio) -
  CTIO tools

Please note that the repositories only contain the source code and
often did not receive an update yet.

Commit message:

Add contact request for additional external packages

external.md, after:

---
title: External packages
---

## External packages

Several external packages are maintained in repositories within the
iraf-community organization on github:

* [fitsutil](https://github.com/iraf-community/fitsutil) -
  Utilities for single and multiple FITS files
* [sptable](https://github.com/iraf-community/sptable) -
  IRAF package for tabular spectra
* [mscred](https://github.com/iraf-community/mscred) -
  Mosaic CCD reduction package
* [nfextern](https://github.com/iraf-community/nfextern) -
  General IR reductions/NEWFIRM package 
* [vo](https://github.com/iraf-community/vo) -
  Virtual Observatory package and vocl from the original v2.16.1 release
* [mscdb](https://github.com/iraf-community/mscdb) -
  MSCRED support files
* [xdimsum](https://github.com/iraf-community/xdimsum) -
  IR reductions
* [ucsclris](https://github.com/iraf-community/ucsclris) -
  UCSC LRIS mask making
* [guiapps](https://github.com/iraf-community/guiapps) -
  Prototype GUI application 
* [deitab](https://github.com/iraf-community/deitab) -
  DEIMOS tables package 
* [adccdrom](https://github.com/iraf-community/adccdrom) -
  Astronomical Data Center (ADC) CD-ROM tools
* [ctio](https://github.com/iraf-community/ctio) -
  CTIO tools

Please note that the repositories only contain the source code and often did
not receive an update yet. If there are more packages that should be
maintained in the repositories please contact us to get them included.
