iraf-v216/issues/10.md, before:

---
title: Patches for linux build #10
---

[iraf-v216](/iraf-v216) · [Code](https://github.com/iraf-community/iraf/tree/iraf-v216) · [Issues (50)](/iraf-v216/issues) · [Pull requests (81)](/iraf-v216/issues/pulls)

# iraf.net pull request #10
## Patches for linux build
*open* **[joequant](https://github.com/joequant)** wants to merge 48 commits

- - - -

**[joequant](https://github.com/joequant)** commented on 2017-04-30

“The Schleswig-Holstein question is so complicated, only three men in Europe have ever understood it. One was Prince Albert, who is dead. The second was a German professor who became mad. I am the third and I have forgotten all about it.”   
  
Here are the changes that I made to get IRAF to build on linux with host libraries.  There is a README.md.  The build.sh runs the system.  
  
I remember that I had to do crazy things with pointers to get it to work...
- - - -

## Commits

* remove intermediate .a [[d2c391e7](https://github.com/iraf-community/iraf/commit/d2c391e7e08a0b1c106ebf86ce3644a249ee8e15)]
* remove bin symlink which is regenerated [[e0cb53c2](https://github.com/iraf-community/iraf/commit/e0cb53c28849b9dcb346380ad15fa88e991c904f)]
* remove intermediate y.output [[013519d5](https://github.com/iraf-community/iraf/commit/013519d59ebad99772df14f5c3e902d0a0bd3f2a)]
* remove unnecessary Makefiles [[a104f5f4](https://github.com/iraf-community/iraf/commit/a104f5f438a89e40d5640b00303f765245617d93)]
* remove files marked .old [[9a6c3cdb](https://github.com/iraf-community/iraf/commit/9a6c3cdb3f95608f88da04d7193c866f3a243314)]
* remove .pc intermediate file [[db35868d](https://github.com/iraf-community/iraf/commit/db35868d4615325f6272018a474d85ae1d3dbeee)]
* add changes for linux build [[08d9b060](https://github.com/iraf-community/iraf/commit/08d9b060a747d61552cdf01ba13672bc089af843)]
* change permissions on bootstrap scripts [[2e75b66e](https://github.com/iraf-community/iraf/commit/2e75b66ed944f15a5711f6ffb3b2593dc1cef893)]
* reorg libc directories [[094305cf](https://github.com/iraf-community/iraf/commit/094305cf1aeecc21932fd8d253bbb64e7c7df35f)]
* makefile changes [[fc802b45](https://github.com/iraf-community/iraf/commit/fc802b451acd066fb7d991a99b9004ef5e8ddedf)]
* remove more intermediate files [[fb23c9ca](https://github.com/iraf-community/iraf/commit/fb23c9caaa5cf10125848eddbae8f6ef42591c00)]
* remove readline [[9c6e56a9](https://github.com/iraf-community/iraf/commit/9c6e56a9982c54d0ffccad42cf8a5aebd5b6d746)]
* remove xmlrpc [[dc0e546f](https://github.com/iraf-community/iraf/commit/dc0e546fc001cffbded28269a892fdc04a0be68a)]
* remove curl/types.h [[c6091080](https://github.com/iraf-community/iraf/commit/c609108041942e28a7c7f2ccad50dc0fc8c2ef75)]
* back out of HOST_XMLRPC changes [[20aad8f8](https://github.com/iraf-community/iraf/commit/20aad8f8e503e4bd322e65506f9e9a72a6bc36f0)]
* don't build expat [[a0051a43](https://github.com/iraf-community/iraf/commit/a0051a438366d49752f6e51b91919f6bc53dbe44)]
* remove unnecessary files [[bb21a7de](https://github.com/iraf-community/iraf/commit/bb21a7de307930ddc809520b336dc27527feb9dd)]
* fix incorrect declaration that kills f90 builds [[0565f554](https://github.com/iraf-community/iraf/commit/0565f554c339bd6ce4ade423bc112fddd217022f)]
* fix segfault due to bad assumption about fnlen [[59a0fcd6](https://github.com/iraf-community/iraf/commit/59a0fcd6129feb74f6403a57f9c0faaf2d240242)]
* bootstrap system only [[826822c7](https://github.com/iraf-community/iraf/commit/826822c7e33ad75e3c35afa430a5f6fc8a751c4f)]
* add explicit include line [[bb5b567f](https://github.com/iraf-community/iraf/commit/bb5b567feba0e225d8db5bf3f2189b9c934fbced)]
* change arrays to use abstract pointers [[b8014ade](https://github.com/iraf-community/iraf/commit/b8014adeda6bb6572ed08b25f9bf5203371d3b5f)]
* add host cfitsio [[4de72c9e](https://github.com/iraf-community/iraf/commit/4de72c9ec5825ebe68a031e643920471d8b5049b)]
* add build.sh [[2ace92d0](https://github.com/iraf-community/iraf/commit/2ace92d0bd4606ab55ccd0fa6f60b206d277e2d8)]
* add rpm related files [[2be4eeb3](https://github.com/iraf-community/iraf/commit/2be4eeb365f75e37a09fd388d93fd5ee859686f6)]
* checkpoint spec file [[6270f197](https://github.com/iraf-community/iraf/commit/6270f1974d90a0bfdc378a90e3c8cb625a79485e)]
* create lib/build subdir [[02de6b7a](https://github.com/iraf-community/iraf/commit/02de6b7ae9ed44493306dbef9e8fe2a4caf86174)]
* remove libos.a that breaks build [[4c43fe76](https://github.com/iraf-community/iraf/commit/4c43fe76be88ceb7a82361b77ec00b6cee2f2ab4)]
* set include to local f2c [[e37a94a0](https://github.com/iraf-community/iraf/commit/e37a94a0ab00f2b3b1d928c404bd1d495fd06769)]
* use external libxmlrpc [[cabab0ea](https://github.com/iraf-community/iraf/commit/cabab0ea65b777d5ec26a2f7f9a40dcebbdffc50)]
* put cache and image directories in home directory [[fbc9131d](https://github.com/iraf-community/iraf/commit/fbc9131d9cda2c5f0238348bca2a28187f15f361)]
* remove readline.h [[dc062e16](https://github.com/iraf-community/iraf/commit/dc062e16695d56654705e51d9dfa62d2e838ce1c)]
* remove old xmlrpc call [[6f5f9bd9](https://github.com/iraf-community/iraf/commit/6f5f9bd95ebdb04d2ee3f585939a04368ddd6147)]
* build vo [[5d65e9c3](https://github.com/iraf-community/iraf/commit/5d65e9c32321d430c1b43efd402eab5f9bdd4aaf)]
* consistently use CC and CFLAGS [[b75339f6](https://github.com/iraf-community/iraf/commit/b75339f68267eecbcae73e366d84c6e3f7a6bcea)]
* fix fprintf to prevent warning/errors [[b0aa374e](https://github.com/iraf-community/iraf/commit/b0aa374ee7ccc45ec6d2f6336f7eaeb5391c8de7)]
* fix dependecies [[46d8ea40](https://github.com/iraf-community/iraf/commit/46d8ea4032fd33122a8217d9d480c8f75d803794)]
* fix xmlrpc calls to server/client [[a5c0280c](https://github.com/iraf-community/iraf/commit/a5c0280c87e914a32d1ef5f7621f8e99ec884f79)]
* add cfitsio pkg-config flags [[cb3ce024](https://github.com/iraf-community/iraf/commit/cb3ce024173d997c961ed8f819e9d25f4bd23d71)]
* change arguments to have iraf.h in LINUX [[c29e85f2](https://github.com/iraf-community/iraf/commit/c29e85f220aa42390b1cf6f73230e16d26b873e4)]
* force iraf to align on 128-bit boundaries [[d862831b](https://github.com/iraf-community/iraf/commit/d862831be7652d1cc870f8ffc7b4975a97403e85)]
* add configure to mkclean [[ec038cff](https://github.com/iraf-community/iraf/commit/ec038cff4c07378543990f1a41e59d977722ccff)]
* appears that check for iraf variable is reversed [[eae4a715](https://github.com/iraf-community/iraf/commit/eae4a715d4c4e7432c4bce640576efa2d57beaa0)]
* avoid loop [[67fccf13](https://github.com/iraf-community/iraf/commit/67fccf13b60ad155cc765f852941f38293ac7d3c)]
* don't copy cfitsio if on host [[e62b8af0](https://github.com/iraf-community/iraf/commit/e62b8af071213b40991204cb539d462ec0105fda)]
* fix up voapps Makefile [[c68e3a43](https://github.com/iraf-community/iraf/commit/c68e3a434a503a6068b1975e786e88eee81b0a26)]
* fix host include expat [[da7f9bb7](https://github.com/iraf-community/iraf/commit/da7f9bb7cbf7f346506154f582c4ca6f268b32ba)]
* Add new README.md [[763e4176](https://github.com/iraf-community/iraf/commit/763e417699322ef5caa30823347e2e929be3f8fb)]

- - - -

Last updated on 2017-05-02

Commit message:

Mention merged PRs from iraf-v216

iraf-v216/issues/10.md, after:

---
title: Patches for linux build #10
---

[iraf-v216](/iraf-v216) · [Code](https://github.com/iraf-community/iraf/tree/iraf-v216) · [Issues (50)](/iraf-v216/issues) · [Pull requests (81)](/iraf-v216/issues/pulls)

# iraf.net pull request #10
## Patches for linux build
![closed](git-pull-request.svg) *closed* **[joequant](https://github.com/joequant)** wants to merge 48 commits

- - - -

**[joequant](https://github.com/joequant)** commented on 2017-04-30

“The Schleswig-Holstein question is so complicated, only three men in Europe have ever understood it. One was Prince Albert, who is dead. The second was a German professor who became mad. I am the third and I have forgotten all about it.”   
  
Here are the changes that I made to get IRAF to build on linux with host libraries.  There is a README.md.  The build.sh runs the system.  
  
I remember that I had to do crazy things with pointers to get it to work...
- - - -

**[olebole](https://github.com/olebole)** commented on 2018-04-01

This is partially merged as in several other commits, therefore I am closing it.

- - - -

## Commits

* remove intermediate .a [[d2c391e7](https://github.com/iraf-community/iraf/commit/d2c391e7e08a0b1c106ebf86ce3644a249ee8e15)]
* remove bin symlink which is regenerated [[e0cb53c2](https://github.com/iraf-community/iraf/commit/e0cb53c28849b9dcb346380ad15fa88e991c904f)]
* remove intermediate y.output [[013519d5](https://github.com/iraf-community/iraf/commit/013519d59ebad99772df14f5c3e902d0a0bd3f2a)]
* remove unnecessary Makefiles [[a104f5f4](https://github.com/iraf-community/iraf/commit/a104f5f438a89e40d5640b00303f765245617d93)]
* remove files marked .old [[9a6c3cdb](https://github.com/iraf-community/iraf/commit/9a6c3cdb3f95608f88da04d7193c866f3a243314)]
* remove .pc intermediate file [[db35868d](https://github.com/iraf-community/iraf/commit/db35868d4615325f6272018a474d85ae1d3dbeee)]
* add changes for linux build [[08d9b060](https://github.com/iraf-community/iraf/commit/08d9b060a747d61552cdf01ba13672bc089af843)]
* change permissions on bootstrap scripts [[2e75b66e](https://github.com/iraf-community/iraf/commit/2e75b66ed944f15a5711f6ffb3b2593dc1cef893)]
* reorg libc directories [[094305cf](https://github.com/iraf-community/iraf/commit/094305cf1aeecc21932fd8d253bbb64e7c7df35f)]
* makefile changes [[fc802b45](https://github.com/iraf-community/iraf/commit/fc802b451acd066fb7d991a99b9004ef5e8ddedf)]
* remove more intermediate files [[fb23c9ca](https://github.com/iraf-community/iraf/commit/fb23c9caaa5cf10125848eddbae8f6ef42591c00)]
* remove readline [[9c6e56a9](https://github.com/iraf-community/iraf/commit/9c6e56a9982c54d0ffccad42cf8a5aebd5b6d746)]
* remove xmlrpc [[dc0e546f](https://github.com/iraf-community/iraf/commit/dc0e546fc001cffbded28269a892fdc04a0be68a)]
* remove curl/types.h [[c6091080](https://github.com/iraf-community/iraf/commit/c609108041942e28a7c7f2ccad50dc0fc8c2ef75)]
* back out of HOST_XMLRPC changes [[20aad8f8](https://github.com/iraf-community/iraf/commit/20aad8f8e503e4bd322e65506f9e9a72a6bc36f0)]
* don't build expat [[a0051a43](https://github.com/iraf-community/iraf/commit/a0051a438366d49752f6e51b91919f6bc53dbe44)]
* remove unnecessary files [[bb21a7de](https://github.com/iraf-community/iraf/commit/bb21a7de307930ddc809520b336dc27527feb9dd)]
* fix incorrect declaration that kills f90 builds [[0565f554](https://github.com/iraf-community/iraf/commit/0565f554c339bd6ce4ade423bc112fddd217022f)]
* fix segfault due to bad assumption about fnlen [[59a0fcd6](https://github.com/iraf-community/iraf/commit/59a0fcd6129feb74f6403a57f9c0faaf2d240242)]
* bootstrap system only [[826822c7](https://github.com/iraf-community/iraf/commit/826822c7e33ad75e3c35afa430a5f6fc8a751c4f)]
* add explicit include line [[bb5b567f](https://github.com/iraf-community/iraf/commit/bb5b567feba0e225d8db5bf3f2189b9c934fbced)]
* change arrays to use abstract pointers [[b8014ade](https://github.com/iraf-community/iraf/commit/b8014adeda6bb6572ed08b25f9bf5203371d3b5f)]
* add host cfitsio [[4de72c9e](https://github.com/iraf-community/iraf/commit/4de72c9ec5825ebe68a031e643920471d8b5049b)]
* add build.sh [[2ace92d0](https://github.com/iraf-community/iraf/commit/2ace92d0bd4606ab55ccd0fa6f60b206d277e2d8)]
* add rpm related files [[2be4eeb3](https://github.com/iraf-community/iraf/commit/2be4eeb365f75e37a09fd388d93fd5ee859686f6)]
* checkpoint spec file [[6270f197](https://github.com/iraf-community/iraf/commit/6270f1974d90a0bfdc378a90e3c8cb625a79485e)]
* create lib/build subdir [[02de6b7a](https://github.com/iraf-community/iraf/commit/02de6b7ae9ed44493306dbef9e8fe2a4caf86174)]
* remove libos.a that breaks build [[4c43fe76](https://github.com/iraf-community/iraf/commit/4c43fe76be88ceb7a82361b77ec00b6cee2f2ab4)]
* set include to local f2c [[e37a94a0](https://github.com/iraf-community/iraf/commit/e37a94a0ab00f2b3b1d928c404bd1d495fd06769)]
* use external libxmlrpc [[cabab0ea](https://github.com/iraf-community/iraf/commit/cabab0ea65b777d5ec26a2f7f9a40dcebbdffc50)]
* put cache and image directories in home directory [[fbc9131d](https://github.com/iraf-community/iraf/commit/fbc9131d9cda2c5f0238348bca2a28187f15f361)]
* remove readline.h [[dc062e16](https://github.com/iraf-community/iraf/commit/dc062e16695d56654705e51d9dfa62d2e838ce1c)]
* remove old xmlrpc call [[6f5f9bd9](https://github.com/iraf-community/iraf/commit/6f5f9bd95ebdb04d2ee3f585939a04368ddd6147)]
* build vo [[5d65e9c3](https://github.com/iraf-community/iraf/commit/5d65e9c32321d430c1b43efd402eab5f9bdd4aaf)]
* consistently use CC and CFLAGS [[b75339f6](https://github.com/iraf-community/iraf/commit/b75339f68267eecbcae73e366d84c6e3f7a6bcea)]
* fix fprintf to prevent warning/errors [[b0aa374e](https://github.com/iraf-community/iraf/commit/b0aa374ee7ccc45ec6d2f6336f7eaeb5391c8de7)]
* fix dependecies [[46d8ea40](https://github.com/iraf-community/iraf/commit/46d8ea4032fd33122a8217d9d480c8f75d803794)]
* fix xmlrpc calls to server/client [[a5c0280c](https://github.com/iraf-community/iraf/commit/a5c0280c87e914a32d1ef5f7621f8e99ec884f79)]
* add cfitsio pkg-config flags [[cb3ce024](https://github.com/iraf-community/iraf/commit/cb3ce024173d997c961ed8f819e9d25f4bd23d71)]
* change arguments to have iraf.h in LINUX [[c29e85f2](https://github.com/iraf-community/iraf/commit/c29e85f220aa42390b1cf6f73230e16d26b873e4)]
* force iraf to align on 128-bit boundaries [[d862831b](https://github.com/iraf-community/iraf/commit/d862831be7652d1cc870f8ffc7b4975a97403e85)]
* add configure to mkclean [[ec038cff](https://github.com/iraf-community/iraf/commit/ec038cff4c07378543990f1a41e59d977722ccff)]
* appears that check for iraf variable is reversed [[eae4a715](https://github.com/iraf-community/iraf/commit/eae4a715d4c4e7432c4bce640576efa2d57beaa0)]
* avoid loop [[67fccf13](https://github.com/iraf-community/iraf/commit/67fccf13b60ad155cc765f852941f38293ac7d3c)]
* don't copy cfitsio if on host [[e62b8af0](https://github.com/iraf-community/iraf/commit/e62b8af071213b40991204cb539d462ec0105fda)]
* fix up voapps Makefile [[c68e3a43](https://github.com/iraf-community/iraf/commit/c68e3a434a503a6068b1975e786e88eee81b0a26)]
* fix host include expat [[da7f9bb7](https://github.com/iraf-community/iraf/commit/da7f9bb7cbf7f346506154f582c4ca6f268b32ba)]
* Add new README.md [[763e4176](https://github.com/iraf-community/iraf/commit/763e417699322ef5caa30823347e2e929be3f8fb)]

- - - -

Last updated on 2017-05-02
