iraf-v216/issues/112.md, before:

---
title: Fix type of variable to hold vo_paramNext() return value #112
---

[iraf-v216](/iraf-v216) · [Code](https://github.com/iraf-community/iraf/tree/iraf-v216) · [Issues (50)](/iraf-v216/issues) · [Pull requests (81)](/iraf-v216/issues/pulls)

# iraf.net pull request #112
## Fix type of variable to hold vo_paramNext() return value
*open* **[olebole](https://github.com/olebole)** wants to merge 1 commits

- - - -

**[olebole](https://github.com/olebole)** commented on 2017-11-14

`vo_paramNext()` [returns an `int`](https://github.com/iraf-community/iraf/blob/9590f45760a4791f3305407fb51c87f1282b32be/vendor/voclient/voapps/lib/voParams.c#L116-L118), and specifically [returns a negative value](https://github.com/iraf-community/iraf/blob/9590f45760a4791f3305407fb51c87f1282b32be/vendor/voclient/voapps/lib/voParams.c#L157) if there are arguments left after processing the options.  
  
Depending on the signedness of `char`, this may be converted to a positive value if the return value is [converted to a `char`](https://github.com/iraf-community/iraf/blob/9590f45760a4791f3305407fb51c87f1282b32be/vendor/voclient/voapps/votcnv.c#L81). This happens f.e. on ARM processors, where the char is `unsigned char` by default. Since the option parsing [is stopped](https://github.com/iraf-community/iraf/blob/9590f45760a4791f3305407fb51c87f1282b32be/vendor/voclient/voapps/votcnv.c#L106) when this is `<=0`, additional (non-option) arguments lead  
to an errornous processing.  
  
The correct type to hold the return value is `int`, and this was already set in [some VO applications (f.e. `votjoin`)](https://github.com/iraf-community/iraf/blob/9590f45760a4791f3305407fb51c87f1282b32be/vendor/voclient/voapps/votjoin.c#L72). This patch changes this for the remaining apps.  
  
This fixes the read problem of VOTables on arm processors.
- - - -

## Commits

* Fix type of variable to hold vo_paramNext() return value [[1be5be81](https://github.com/iraf-community/iraf/commit/1be5be811df9e50629c8d079e312a2ea6db82bcb)]

- - - -

Last updated on 2017-11-14

Commit message:

Mention merged PRs from iraf-v216

iraf-v216/issues/112.md, after:

---
title: Fix type of variable to hold vo_paramNext() return value #112
---

[iraf-v216](/iraf-v216) · [Code](https://github.com/iraf-community/iraf/tree/iraf-v216) · [Issues (50)](/iraf-v216/issues) · [Pull requests (81)](/iraf-v216/issues/pulls)

# iraf.net pull request #112
## Fix type of variable to hold vo_paramNext() return value
![closed](git-pull-request.svg) *closed* **[olebole](https://github.com/olebole)** wants to merge 1 commits

- - - -

**[olebole](https://github.com/olebole)** commented on 2017-11-14

`vo_paramNext()` [returns an `int`](https://github.com/iraf-community/iraf/blob/9590f45760a4791f3305407fb51c87f1282b32be/vendor/voclient/voapps/lib/voParams.c#L116-L118), and specifically [returns a negative value](https://github.com/iraf-community/iraf/blob/9590f45760a4791f3305407fb51c87f1282b32be/vendor/voclient/voapps/lib/voParams.c#L157) if there are arguments left after processing the options.  
  
Depending on the signedness of `char`, this may be converted to a positive value if the return value is [converted to a `char`](https://github.com/iraf-community/iraf/blob/9590f45760a4791f3305407fb51c87f1282b32be/vendor/voclient/voapps/votcnv.c#L81). This happens f.e. on ARM processors, where the char is `unsigned char` by default. Since the option parsing [is stopped](https://github.com/iraf-community/iraf/blob/9590f45760a4791f3305407fb51c87f1282b32be/vendor/voclient/voapps/votcnv.c#L106) when this is `<=0`, additional (non-option) arguments lead  
to an errornous processing.  
  
The correct type to hold the return value is `int`, and this was already set in [some VO applications (f.e. `votjoin`)](https://github.com/iraf-community/iraf/blob/9590f45760a4791f3305407fb51c87f1282b32be/vendor/voclient/voapps/votjoin.c#L72). This patch changes this for the remaining apps.  
  
This fixes the read problem of VOTables on arm processors.
- - - -

**[olebole](https://github.com/olebole)** commented on 2018-04-01

The VO package is removed from the iraf-community repository, therefore I am closing this.

- - - -

## Commits

* Fix type of variable to hold vo_paramNext() return value [[1be5be81](https://github.com/iraf-community/iraf/commit/1be5be811df9e50629c8d079e312a2ea6db82bcb)]

- - - -

Last updated on 2017-11-14
