iraf-v216/issues/120.md, before:

---
title: [x11iraf] xgterm sets the wrong TERM variable #120
---

[iraf-v216](/iraf-v216) · [Code](https://github.com/iraf-community/iraf/tree/iraf-v216) · [Issues (50)](/iraf-v216/issues) · [Pull requests (81)](/iraf-v216/issues/pulls)

# iraf.net Issue #120
## [x11iraf] xgterm sets the wrong TERM variable
![open](issue-opened.svg) *open* **[olebole](https://github.com/olebole)** opened this issue on 2017-12-06

- - - -

**[olebole](https://github.com/olebole)** commented on 2017-12-06

When starting xgterm, the `TERM` variable has the wrong value:  
  
```  
$ echo $TERM  
vt100  
```  
  
The reason is that xgterm tries to get the value from the `terminfo` database, which does not contain an entry for `xgterm`, and then falls back to `vt100`.  
  
An way to install xgterm in the database is to call the `tic` terminfo compiler with the following file as argument (tic is part of the ncurses binaries):  
  
```  
# xgterm.terminfo: Terminfo entry source for xgterm  
# compile with "tic xgterm.terminfo"  
xgterm|graphic terminal for IRAF,  
	use=xterm-r5,  
```  
  
This will compile and install a database entry in the home directory (resp. in the standard terminfo dir, when compiled as root) and so allows xgterm to set the correct `TERM` variable.  
  
```  
$ echo $TERM  
xgterm  
```  
  
This should be part of the IRAF installation procedure.

- - - -

Last updated on 2017-12-07

Commit message:

Update status of closed iraf-v216 issues

iraf-v216/issues/120.md, after:

---
title: [x11iraf] xgterm sets the wrong TERM variable #120
---

[iraf-v216](/iraf-v216) · [Code](https://github.com/iraf-community/iraf/tree/iraf-v216) · [Issues (50)](/iraf-v216/issues) · [Pull requests (81)](/iraf-v216/issues/pulls)

# iraf.net Issue #120
## [x11iraf] xgterm sets the wrong TERM variable
![closed](issue-closed.svg) *closed* **[olebole](https://github.com/olebole)** opened this issue on 2017-12-06

- - - -

**[olebole](https://github.com/olebole)** commented on 2017-12-06

When starting xgterm, the `TERM` variable has the wrong value:  
  
```  
$ echo $TERM  
vt100  
```  
  
The reason is that xgterm tries to get the value from the `terminfo` database, which does not contain an entry for `xgterm`, and then falls back to `vt100`.  
  
An way to install xgterm in the database is to call the `tic` terminfo compiler with the following file as argument (tic is part of the ncurses binaries):  
  
```  
# xgterm.terminfo: Terminfo entry source for xgterm  
# compile with "tic xgterm.terminfo"  
xgterm|graphic terminal for IRAF,  
	use=xterm-r5,  
```  
  
This will compile and install a database entry in the home directory (resp. in the standard terminfo dir, when compiled as root) and so allows xgterm to set the correct `TERM` variable.  
  
```  
$ echo $TERM  
xgterm  
```  
  
This should be part of the IRAF installation procedure.

- - - -

Fixed in [iraf-community/x11iraf#23](https://github.com/iraf-community/x11iraf/pull/23)
- - - -

Last updated on 2017-12-07
