iraf-v216/issues/pulls.md, before:

---
title: Old iraf.net pull requests
---

[Issues (50)](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues) · [Pull requests (81)](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/pulls)

# Old iraf.net pull requests
This is a list of pull requests in the old [iraf.net](https://github.com/iraf) github repository `iraf-v216`, which was removed in October 2018

* [**Update cfitsio to 3.430**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/135)  
   #135 opened on 2018-02-10 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (open)
* [**Fix off-by-one problem in xppcode.c**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/133)  
   #133 opened on 2018-02-10 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (open)
* [**Remove files that were generated by generic or xyacc**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/132)  
   #132 opened on 2018-02-10 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (open)
* [**Make photcal 64-bit capable**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/130)  
   #130 opened on 2018-02-04 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (open)
* [**f2c: Fix allocated size of Dimblock**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/127)  
   #127 opened on 2018-01-23 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (open)
* [**Check filepointer for NULL in envinit before trying to close.**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/126)  
   #126 opened on 2017-12-28 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (open)
* [**Add the required credits for the IRAF64 project.**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/125)  
   #125 opened on 2017-12-13 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (open)
* [**Use strncpy and snprintf to fill file header in wtar**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/124)  
   #124 opened on 2017-12-13 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (open)
* [**Specify explicit format for fprintf()**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/123)  
   #123 opened on 2017-12-13 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (open)
* [**Limit number of finfo structs returned by KI_ZFINFO to MAX_ARGS**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/122)  
   #122 opened on 2017-12-13 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (open)
* [**Fix isalnum() and friends for non-ascii values**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/121)  
   #121 opened on 2017-12-09 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (open)
* [**Cleanup unix subdir**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/117)  
   #117 opened on 2017-11-27 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (open)
* [**Remove expat sources**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/116)  
   #116 opened on 2017-11-22 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (open)
* [**Use curl in pkgget**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/115)  
   #115 opened on 2017-11-18 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (open)
* [**Cleanup readline libraries**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/113)  
   #113 opened on 2017-11-16 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (open)
* [**Fix type of variable to hold vo_paramNext() return value**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/112)  
   #112 opened on 2017-11-14 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (open)
* [**Fix comparison for some optional command line arguments in xc**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/111)  
   #111 opened on 2017-11-04 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (open)
* [**Add a trailing `\0` to the end of variable format strings in `pkg/tbtables/fitsio/`**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/110)  
   #110 opened on 2017-10-26 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (open)
* [**Fix OS dirnames in `README`**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/108)  
   #108 opened on 2017-10-18 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (open)
* [**Adjust f2c's internal `integer` size for ILP64**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/107)  
   #107 opened on 2017-10-17 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (open)
* [**Replace d1mach.f and r1mach.f by C sources**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/106)  
   #106 opened on 2017-10-16 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (open)
* [**Handle negative pointers in `sys/nmemio`**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/105)  
   #105 opened on 2017-10-15 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (open)
* [**Remove all executables and binaries in `make src`**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/104)  
   #104 opened on 2017-10-11 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (open)
* [**[linux64] Correct underlines in mem symbol in zsvjmp**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/102)  
   #102 opened on 2017-10-11 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (open)
* [**Correct string length of baseurl initialization in chkupdate.x**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/101)  
   #101 opened on 2017-10-07 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (open)
* [**Fix segfault when opening a STRING_FILE**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/100)  
   #100 opened on 2017-10-07 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (open)
* [**Fix statement order in `vfn_expand_ldir`**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/99)  
   #99 opened on 2017-10-07 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (open)
* [**Fix linenumber generation with xpp -x (rpp and spp)**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/98)  
   #98 opened on 2017-09-20 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (open)
* [**Add libbev.a link**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/97)  
   #97 opened on 2017-09-13 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (open)
* [**Fix pointer types for XINT * arguments**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/95)  
   #95 opened on 2017-09-03 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (closed)
* [**Fix template expansion in generic.c**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/94)  
   #94 opened on 2017-08-05 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (open)
* [**Remove VO related packages and libraries**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/93)  
   #93 opened on 2017-06-27 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (open)
* [**Initialize oscwd in zglobl.c**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/91)  
   #91 opened on 2017-06-19 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (open)
* [**Check for identical addresses before strcpy() in mkpkg/tok.c**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/89)  
   #89 opened on 2017-06-15 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (open)
* [**Fix type of arguments for several procedure calls**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/88)  
   #88 opened on 2017-06-14 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (open)
* [**Bugfix for unix/os/gmttolst.c and unix/zgmtco.c**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/87)  
   #87 opened on 2017-06-09 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (open)
* [**Port IRAF to several architectures**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/86)  
   #86 opened on 2017-06-08 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (closed)
* [**Fix location of yaccpar.x**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/84)  
   #84 opened on 2017-06-01 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (open)
* [**[macosx] Fix syntax error in readline/mkpkg on macosx**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/83)  
   #83 opened on 2017-06-01 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (open)
* [**Remove absolute paths from header**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/82)  
   #82 opened on 2017-05-29 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (open)
* [**Reverse the condition when iraf should be set**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/81)  
   #81 opened on 2017-05-29 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (open)
* [**[macosx] Fix MacOSX min version on zsvjmp_i386.s**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/80)  
   #80 opened on 2017-05-29 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (open)
* [**Fix lex source files in xpp and generic**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/79)  
   #79 opened on 2017-05-28 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (open)
* [**[macintel] Replace setpgrp(...) with POSIX setpgid()**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/78)  
   #78 opened on 2017-05-25 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (open)
* [**Avoid identical src/target in strcpy() when creating library names in xc**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/77)  
   #77 opened on 2017-05-24 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (open)
* [**[linux] Consequently add -m32 flags if compiling for linux(32)**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/76)  
   #76 opened on 2017-05-23 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (open)
* [**Convert to ANSI C to fix return types of functions in memlog.c**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/75)  
   #75 opened on 2017-05-21 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (open)
* [**Limit entries in bitmask to 64 bit.**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/74)  
   #74 opened on 2017-05-21 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (open)
* [**Accept zero date in archives**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/71)  
   #71 opened on 2017-05-19 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (open)
* [**Remove X11IRAF**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/70)  
   #70 opened on 2017-05-18 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (open)
* [**Remove second copy of cfitsio build**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/69)  
   #69 opened on 2017-05-18 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (open)
* [**Remove curl sources**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/68)  
   #68 opened on 2017-05-18 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (open)
* [**Fix computation of offset in memory allocation at 32 bit**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/67)  
   #67 opened on 2017-05-17 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (open)
* [**Explicitly use actual timestamps when calling ar from mkpkg on Linux**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/65)  
   #65 opened on 2017-05-16 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (closed)
* [**Fix ADDR_TO_LOC for i386 (32 bit)**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/62)  
   #62 opened on 2017-05-16 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (open)
* [**Fix declaration of cdsmem in rpp**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/60)  
   #60 opened on 2017-05-15 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (open)
* [**Force iraf to align on 128-bit boundaries**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/57)  
   #57 opened on 2017-05-13 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (open)
* [**Remove curl/types.h includes**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/51)  
   #51 opened on 2017-05-09 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (open)
* [**Fixed spelling error, "the" not "teh".**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/47)  
   #47 opened on 2017-05-09 by [RobSteele49](https://github.com/RobSteele49) (open)
* [**(Re-)add bin.* directory structure to vo subdir**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/46)  
   #46 opened on 2017-05-08 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (open)
* [**[linux64] Call the PLT for __sigsetjmp instead of calling directly**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/45)  
   #45 opened on 2017-05-08 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (open)
* [**Removed an extra linux64: in the file since this could be confusing i…**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/44)  
   #44 opened on 2017-05-08 by [RobSteele49](https://github.com/RobSteele49) (open)
* [**Build vendor libs before starting the NOVOS build**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/40)  
   #40 opened on 2017-05-07 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (open)
* [**Fixed recursive error in definition of LFLAGS.**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/39)  
   #39 opened on 2017-05-06 by [RobSteele49](https://github.com/RobSteele49) (open)
* [**Convert remaining scripts to /bin/sh**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/38)  
   #38 opened on 2017-05-05 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (open)
* [**Replace or remove non-free code (Numerical Recipes etc.)**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/37)  
   #37 opened on 2017-05-05 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (open)
* [**Add continious integration testing with travis-CI**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/36)  
   #36 opened on 2017-05-05 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (open)
* [**Replace absolute symlinks in sys/osb by relative ones**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/33)  
   #33 opened on 2017-05-05 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (open)
* [**Add ${HOME}/.iraf/ to the "C" include search path for xc.**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/29)  
   #29 opened on 2017-05-04 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (closed)
* [**Don't link libVO.a and libcfitsio.a with xc for NOVOS builds**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/27)  
   #27 opened on 2017-05-04 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (closed)
* [**Cleanup generated files**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/25)  
   #25 opened on 2017-05-02 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (open)
* [**Don't remove sticky bit from /tmp on install.**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/24)  
   #24 opened on 2017-05-02 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (open)
* [**Fix setting of non-default IRAF root**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/22)  
   #22 opened on 2017-05-01 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (open)
* [**Remove all pre-RCS versioned files**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/20)  
   #20 opened on 2017-05-01 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (open)
* [**Move test data local/iraf_test.tar.gz to own subdir**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/19)  
   #19 opened on 2017-05-01 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (closed)
* [**Remove local test tarball**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/18)  
   #18 opened on 2017-05-01 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (open)
* [**Move documentation files to the doc subdir**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/17)  
   #17 opened on 2017-05-01 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (open)
* [**Remove common init files from local subdir**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/16)  
   #16 opened on 2017-05-01 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (open)
* [**Remove .exe.gz files**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/15)  
   #15 opened on 2017-05-01 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (open)
* [**Remove several files from external packages**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/14)  
   #14 opened on 2017-05-01 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (open)
* [**Patches for linux build**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/10)  
   #10 opened on 2017-04-30 by [joequant](https://github.com/joequant) (open)
* [**Fixed a spelling error (teh) and added a step 0 for the build procedure.**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/5)  
   #5 opened on 2017-04-27 by [steelewool](https://github.com/steelewool) (closed)
* [**Remove *.class files**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/2)  
   #2 opened on 2017-04-26 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (open)
* [**Remove binary .a files and dos/win executables**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/1)  
   #1 opened on 2017-04-26 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (closed)

Commit message:

Mention that iraf-v216 pull requests are merged into the community distribution

iraf-v216/issues/pulls.md, after:

---
title: Old iraf.net pull requests
---

[Issues (50)](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues) · [Pull requests (81)](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/pulls)

# Old iraf.net pull requests
This is a list of pull requests in the old [iraf.net](https://github.com/iraf) github repository `iraf-v216`, which was removed in October 2018. These pull requests are merged into the IRAF community distribution.

* [**Update cfitsio to 3.430**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/135)  
   #135 opened on 2018-02-10 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (open)
* [**Fix off-by-one problem in xppcode.c**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/133)  
   #133 opened on 2018-02-10 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (open)
* [**Remove files that were generated by generic or xyacc**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/132)  
   #132 opened on 2018-02-10 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (open)
* [**Make photcal 64-bit capable**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/130)  
   #130 opened on 2018-02-04 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (open)
* [**f2c: Fix allocated size of Dimblock**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/127)  
   #127 opened on 2018-01-23 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (open)
* [**Check filepointer for NULL in envinit before trying to close.**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/126)  
   #126 opened on 2017-12-28 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (open)
* [**Add the required credits for the IRAF64 project.**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/125)  
   #125 opened on 2017-12-13 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (open)
* [**Use strncpy and snprintf to fill file header in wtar**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/124)  
   #124 opened on 2017-12-13 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (open)
* [**Specify explicit format for fprintf()**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/123)  
   #123 opened on 2017-12-13 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (open)
* [**Limit number of finfo structs returned by KI_ZFINFO to MAX_ARGS**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/122)  
   #122 opened on 2017-12-13 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (open)
* [**Fix isalnum() and friends for non-ascii values**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/121)  
   #121 opened on 2017-12-09 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (open)
* [**Cleanup unix subdir**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/117)  
   #117 opened on 2017-11-27 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (open)
* [**Remove expat sources**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/116)  
   #116 opened on 2017-11-22 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (open)
* [**Use curl in pkgget**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/115)  
   #115 opened on 2017-11-18 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (open)
* [**Cleanup readline libraries**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/113)  
   #113 opened on 2017-11-16 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (open)
* [**Fix type of variable to hold vo_paramNext() return value**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/112)  
   #112 opened on 2017-11-14 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (open)
* [**Fix comparison for some optional command line arguments in xc**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/111)  
   #111 opened on 2017-11-04 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (open)
* [**Add a trailing `\0` to the end of variable format strings in `pkg/tbtables/fitsio/`**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/110)  
   #110 opened on 2017-10-26 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (open)
* [**Fix OS dirnames in `README`**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/108)  
   #108 opened on 2017-10-18 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (open)
* [**Adjust f2c's internal `integer` size for ILP64**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/107)  
   #107 opened on 2017-10-17 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (open)
* [**Replace d1mach.f and r1mach.f by C sources**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/106)  
   #106 opened on 2017-10-16 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (open)
* [**Handle negative pointers in `sys/nmemio`**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/105)  
   #105 opened on 2017-10-15 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (open)
* [**Remove all executables and binaries in `make src`**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/104)  
   #104 opened on 2017-10-11 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (open)
* [**[linux64] Correct underlines in mem symbol in zsvjmp**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/102)  
   #102 opened on 2017-10-11 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (open)
* [**Correct string length of baseurl initialization in chkupdate.x**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/101)  
   #101 opened on 2017-10-07 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (open)
* [**Fix segfault when opening a STRING_FILE**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/100)  
   #100 opened on 2017-10-07 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (open)
* [**Fix statement order in `vfn_expand_ldir`**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/99)  
   #99 opened on 2017-10-07 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (open)
* [**Fix linenumber generation with xpp -x (rpp and spp)**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/98)  
   #98 opened on 2017-09-20 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (open)
* [**Add libbev.a link**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/97)  
   #97 opened on 2017-09-13 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (open)
* [**Fix pointer types for XINT * arguments**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/95)  
   #95 opened on 2017-09-03 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (closed)
* [**Fix template expansion in generic.c**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/94)  
   #94 opened on 2017-08-05 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (open)
* [**Remove VO related packages and libraries**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/93)  
   #93 opened on 2017-06-27 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (open)
* [**Initialize oscwd in zglobl.c**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/91)  
   #91 opened on 2017-06-19 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (open)
* [**Check for identical addresses before strcpy() in mkpkg/tok.c**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/89)  
   #89 opened on 2017-06-15 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (open)
* [**Fix type of arguments for several procedure calls**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/88)  
   #88 opened on 2017-06-14 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (open)
* [**Bugfix for unix/os/gmttolst.c and unix/zgmtco.c**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/87)  
   #87 opened on 2017-06-09 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (open)
* [**Port IRAF to several architectures**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/86)  
   #86 opened on 2017-06-08 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (closed)
* [**Fix location of yaccpar.x**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/84)  
   #84 opened on 2017-06-01 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (open)
* [**[macosx] Fix syntax error in readline/mkpkg on macosx**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/83)  
   #83 opened on 2017-06-01 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (open)
* [**Remove absolute paths from header**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/82)  
   #82 opened on 2017-05-29 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (open)
* [**Reverse the condition when iraf should be set**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/81)  
   #81 opened on 2017-05-29 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (open)
* [**[macosx] Fix MacOSX min version on zsvjmp_i386.s**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/80)  
   #80 opened on 2017-05-29 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (open)
* [**Fix lex source files in xpp and generic**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/79)  
   #79 opened on 2017-05-28 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (open)
* [**[macintel] Replace setpgrp(...) with POSIX setpgid()**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/78)  
   #78 opened on 2017-05-25 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (open)
* [**Avoid identical src/target in strcpy() when creating library names in xc**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/77)  
   #77 opened on 2017-05-24 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (open)
* [**[linux] Consequently add -m32 flags if compiling for linux(32)**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/76)  
   #76 opened on 2017-05-23 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (open)
* [**Convert to ANSI C to fix return types of functions in memlog.c**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/75)  
   #75 opened on 2017-05-21 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (open)
* [**Limit entries in bitmask to 64 bit.**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/74)  
   #74 opened on 2017-05-21 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (open)
* [**Accept zero date in archives**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/71)  
   #71 opened on 2017-05-19 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (open)
* [**Remove X11IRAF**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/70)  
   #70 opened on 2017-05-18 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (open)
* [**Remove second copy of cfitsio build**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/69)  
   #69 opened on 2017-05-18 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (open)
* [**Remove curl sources**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/68)  
   #68 opened on 2017-05-18 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (open)
* [**Fix computation of offset in memory allocation at 32 bit**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/67)  
   #67 opened on 2017-05-17 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (open)
* [**Explicitly use actual timestamps when calling ar from mkpkg on Linux**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/65)  
   #65 opened on 2017-05-16 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (closed)
* [**Fix ADDR_TO_LOC for i386 (32 bit)**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/62)  
   #62 opened on 2017-05-16 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (open)
* [**Fix declaration of cdsmem in rpp**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/60)  
   #60 opened on 2017-05-15 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (open)
* [**Force iraf to align on 128-bit boundaries**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/57)  
   #57 opened on 2017-05-13 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (open)
* [**Remove curl/types.h includes**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/51)  
   #51 opened on 2017-05-09 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (open)
* [**Fixed spelling error, "the" not "teh".**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/47)  
   #47 opened on 2017-05-09 by [RobSteele49](https://github.com/RobSteele49) (open)
* [**(Re-)add bin.* directory structure to vo subdir**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/46)  
   #46 opened on 2017-05-08 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (open)
* [**[linux64] Call the PLT for __sigsetjmp instead of calling directly**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/45)  
   #45 opened on 2017-05-08 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (open)
* [**Removed an extra linux64: in the file since this could be confusing i…**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/44)  
   #44 opened on 2017-05-08 by [RobSteele49](https://github.com/RobSteele49) (open)
* [**Build vendor libs before starting the NOVOS build**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/40)  
   #40 opened on 2017-05-07 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (open)
* [**Fixed recursive error in definition of LFLAGS.**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/39)  
   #39 opened on 2017-05-06 by [RobSteele49](https://github.com/RobSteele49) (open)
* [**Convert remaining scripts to /bin/sh**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/38)  
   #38 opened on 2017-05-05 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (open)
* [**Replace or remove non-free code (Numerical Recipes etc.)**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/37)  
   #37 opened on 2017-05-05 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (open)
* [**Add continious integration testing with travis-CI**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/36)  
   #36 opened on 2017-05-05 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (open)
* [**Replace absolute symlinks in sys/osb by relative ones**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/33)  
   #33 opened on 2017-05-05 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (open)
* [**Add ${HOME}/.iraf/ to the "C" include search path for xc.**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/29)  
   #29 opened on 2017-05-04 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (closed)
* [**Don't link libVO.a and libcfitsio.a with xc for NOVOS builds**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/27)  
   #27 opened on 2017-05-04 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (closed)
* [**Cleanup generated files**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/25)  
   #25 opened on 2017-05-02 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (open)
* [**Don't remove sticky bit from /tmp on install.**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/24)  
   #24 opened on 2017-05-02 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (open)
* [**Fix setting of non-default IRAF root**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/22)  
   #22 opened on 2017-05-01 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (open)
* [**Remove all pre-RCS versioned files**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/20)  
   #20 opened on 2017-05-01 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (open)
* [**Move test data local/iraf_test.tar.gz to own subdir**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/19)  
   #19 opened on 2017-05-01 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (closed)
* [**Remove local test tarball**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/18)  
   #18 opened on 2017-05-01 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (open)
* [**Move documentation files to the doc subdir**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/17)  
   #17 opened on 2017-05-01 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (open)
* [**Remove common init files from local subdir**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/16)  
   #16 opened on 2017-05-01 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (open)
* [**Remove .exe.gz files**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/15)  
   #15 opened on 2017-05-01 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (open)
* [**Remove several files from external packages**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/14)  
   #14 opened on 2017-05-01 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (open)
* [**Patches for linux build**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/10)  
   #10 opened on 2017-04-30 by [joequant](https://github.com/joequant) (open)
* [**Fixed a spelling error (teh) and added a step 0 for the build procedure.**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/5)  
   #5 opened on 2017-04-27 by [steelewool](https://github.com/steelewool) (closed)
* [**Remove *.class files**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/2)  
   #2 opened on 2017-04-26 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (open)
* [**Remove binary .a files and dos/win executables**](https://iraf-community.github.io/iraf-v216/issues/1)  
   #1 opened on 2017-04-26 by [olebole](https://github.com/olebole) (closed)
